 *Minimum Profit: the mptxt format* 

 Angel Ortega <angel@triptico.com> 

The mptxt format is a very lightweight text formatting that can be
converted by the Minimum Profit text editor to other text formats. This
document describes version 1.00 of the mptxt format.

Output formats supported as of Minimum Profit 5.32 are RTF, troff and HTML.

Default paragraphs are delimited by blank lines; line breaks can be used
arbitrarily and treated the same as spaces. On output they follow the
de-facto spanish literary convention: first line is indented unless it's
the first paragraph of the text or if it follows a special section, like a
centered text or a section break.

Paragraphs with a leading space are treated as _verbatim_ text; in this
kind of text, line breaks are meaningful and no justification is done.
This is an example:

 From: Angel Ortega <angel@triptico.com>
 To: <biohazard laboratory staff>
 Subject: Release the virus
  
 This is an example email.
     Line breaks are shown as written.

These kind of paragraphs shall be shown in a monospaced font if the output
format makes it possible. In the example above, the line between the
subject and the body has *two* spaces: one to mark it as a paragraph to be
centered and another one to include some content, as leading spaces are
deleted on output. Otherwise, they will be treated as two different
paragraphs.

If a paragraph is made of lines with a leading space *and* a trailing
space, it's treated as text that must be shown centered, as in titles,
subtitles. This is an example:

 INTERREGNO EVIL CORPORATION 
 NO ENTRY 
 TRESPASSERS WILL BE SHOT ON SIGHT 

Or, for example, to introduce a section separator, like this:

 *** 

If the output format support it somehow, URLs shall be made clickable,
like when writing one like http://triptico.com or similar.

Text that must be shown emphasized can be surrounded by underscores, like
in _this example_. As well, strong text can be surrounded by asterisks,
like in *this very attention-demanding text*.

Unicode is accepted wherever possible; some output formats have encoding
limitations, though, so be reasonable. As it's important for spanish
writing, special treatment for m-dashes is included.

Some output formatting can be tweaked via configuration variables, see
mp.config for details.

Finally, please note that this format has been designed to make it suitable
for writing by Angel Ortega in spanish. You may find it useless, stupid or
whatever. I don't care. Keep moving.
